feat (orchestrator): [update] use Azure AI Agent Services + ChatUI SDK changes (#20)
Azure-Samples/azure-openai-chat-baseline-landing-zone: README.md

### Differences from the Azure OpenAI end-to-end chat baseline reference implementation

The key differences when integrating the Azure AI Foundry Agent service chat baseline into a application landing zone as opposed to a fully standalone deployment are as follows:

- **Virtual network**: The virtual network will be deployed and configured by the platform team. This involves them providing a UDR and DNS configuration on the virtual network. The subnets are still under the control of the workload team.

> - **DNS forwarding**: Rather than using local DNS settings, the application's virtual network likely will be configured to use central DNS servers, such as Azure Firewall DNS Proxy or Azure Private DNS Resolver, for DNS forwarding. This centralizes DNS management and ensures consistency across the landscape.

Author: thanks for taking the time of reviewing the changes @FreddyAyala, we do really appreciate your feedback on this.

done | addressed from https://github.com/Azure-Samples/azure-openai-chat-baseline-landing-zone/blob/a9a5939fecfba790dc2251074e693f1e45904ee0/README.md?plain=1#L97

  > [!IMPORTANT]

>   > While a centralized DNS architecture is the recommended approach, Azure AI Foundry will require to inject specific rules for its dependencies to be resolved by the Azure Private DNS resolver. This result into a configuration that is not fully centralized, but rather a hybrid approach that resolves some dns queries using a cenralized dhcp configuration at the vnet level, and other queries using a distributed DNS resolver architecture.

Reviewer: Also to be noted that an Azure Private dns reoslver is required, scenarios with an NVA or AZFW DNS Proxy will not work.

  | :warning: | Azure AI Foundry will require Azure Private DNS resolver to inject specific rules to resolve its dependencies. |
  | :-------: | :------------------------- |

- **Bastion host**: Instead of deploying an Azure Bastion host within the application's landing zone, a centralized bastion service already provisioned within the platform landing zone subscriptions is used. This means all remote administrative traffic is routed through a common, secure access point, adhering to the principle of least privilege and centralized auditing.

- **Private DNS Zones**: Private endpoints within the application need to be integrated with centralized private DNS zones that are managed at the platform landing zone level. Such DNS zones might be shared across multiple applications or environments, simplifying the DNS management and providing an organized approach to name resolution.

> - **Network virtual appliance (NVA)**: the centralized NVA and user-defined routes (UDRs) configurations are now managed by the platform team and have been relocated at the hub-spoke level accordingly.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Network virtual appliance (NVA)**: the centralized NVA and user-defined routes (UDRs) configurations are now managed by the platform team and has been relocated to the hub.
```

  | :warning: | Azure AI Foundry will require Azure Private DNS resolver to inject specific rules to resolve its dependencies. |
  | :-------: | :------------------------- |

- **Bastion host**: Instead of deploying an Azure Bastion host within the application's landing zone, a centralized bastion service already provisioned within the platform landing zone subscriptions is used. This means all remote administrative traffic is routed through a common, secure access point, adhering to the principle of least privilege and centralized auditing.

- **Private DNS Zones**: Private endpoints within the application need to be integrated with centralized private DNS zones that are managed at the platform landing zone level. Such DNS zones might be shared across multiple applications or environments, simplifying the DNS management and providing an organized approach to name resolution.

> - **Network virtual appliance (NVA)**: the centralized NVA and user-defined routes (UDRs) configurations are now managed by the platform team and have been relocated at the hub-spoke level accordingly.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Network virtual appliance (NVA)**: the centralized NVA and user-defined routes (UDRs) configurations are now managed by the platform team and has been relocated to the hub.
```

### Integration with existing platform services

Partial configuration for this scenario is in the **parameters.alz.json** file, currently specifies the subnet address prefixes for the following subnets:

- `snet-appGateway`: The subnet for the Azure Application Gateway.
- `snet-appServicePlan`: The subnet for the Azure App Service.
- `snet-privateEndpoints`: The subnet for the Azure Private Endpoint.
- `snet-agents`: The subnet for the Azure AI Foundry Agent Service.
- `snet-jumpbox`: The subnet for the jumboxes.
- `snet-buildagents`: The subnet for the build agents.

## Architecture

Just like the baseline reference implementation, this implementation covers the same following three scenarios:

- [Setting up Azure AI Foundry to host agents](#setting-up-azure-ai-foundry-to-host-agents)

> - [Deploying an agent into Azure AI Foundry Agent Service](#deploying-an-agent-into-azure-ai-agent-service)

Author: good catch @ckittel, 

done | addressed from d3e82d6c43a8fe8174b939a9ae9bfd626e0b3f45

![Architecture diagram that focuses mostly on network ingress flows.](docs/media/baseline-landing-zone-networking.svg)

*Download a [Visio file](docs/media/baseline-landing-zone-networking.vsdx) of this architecture.*

### Prerequisites

- You have an application landing zone subscription ready for this deployment that contains the following platform-provided resources:

  - One virtual network (hub)
    - Azure Bastion
    - Azure Jumbox VM with connectivity to your Azure application landing zone subscription
    - DNS Forwarding ruleset configuration targeting the Azure Private DNS resolver inbound endpoint ip address for the specific Azure AI Foundry capability host domain depdencies as listed below:
      - `documents.azure.com`
      - `search.windows.net`

>       - `blob.core.windows.net`

Reviewer: I agree, the documetn should state that you should have both an existing Platform Landing Zone, and a target Application Landing Zone vNet deplyoed using the vending machine approach.

  - One unassociated route table to force Internet-bound traffic through a platform-provided NVA *(if not using Azure VWAN)*
    - In the same region as your spoke virtual network

>     - A mechanism to get private endpoint DNS registered with the DNS services configured in the virtual network. It also supports injecting specific domains and enables both centralized and distributed DNS registration as a fallback strategy. This ensures that, even when certain services such as Azure AI Foundry cannot rely on centralized DNS resolution, the mechanism can still inject domains like `documents.azure.com`, `search.windows.net`, and `blob.core.windows.net` as needed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - A mechanism to get private endpoint DNS registered with the DNS services configured in the virtual network. It also supports injecting specific domains and enables both centralized and distributed DNS registration as a fallback strategy. This ensures that, even when certain services such as Azure AI Foundry cannot rely on centralized DNS resolution, the mechanism can still inject domains like `documents.azure.com`, `search.windows.net`, and `blob.core.windows.net` as needed.
```

- The application landing zone subscription must have the following quota available in the location you'll select to deploy this implementation.

  - Application Gateways: 1 WAF_v2 tier instance
  - App Service Plans: P1v3 (AZ), 3 instances
  - Azure AI Search (S - Standard): 1
  - Azure Cosmos DB: 1 account
  - OpenAI model: GPT-4 model deployment with 50k TPM capacity

>   - DDoS Protection Plans: 1

Author: you are right @ckittel, removed this from this RI.

done | addressed from 7756b273d80ab675fed09668cde07a7ddb5d53a1

     echo APP_GATEWAY_LISTENER_CERTIFICATE: $APP_GATEWAY_LISTENER_CERTIFICATE
     ```

> 1. Update the **infra-as-code/bicep/parameters.alz.json** file.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Update the **infra-as-code/bicep/parameters.alz.json** file with all references to your platform team's provided resources.
```

>    - `existingResourceIdForSpokeVirtualNetwork`: The resource ID of the spoke virtual network the platform team deployed into your application landing zone subscription.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   You must set the following json values:

   - `existingResourceIdForSpokeVirtualNetwork`: The resource ID of the spoke virtual network the platform team deployed into your application landing zone subscription.
```

     echo APP_GATEWAY_LISTENER_CERTIFICATE: $APP_GATEWAY_LISTENER_CERTIFICATE
     ```

> 1. Update the **infra-as-code/bicep/parameters.alz.json** file if needed.

Author: it could be resolved via https://github.com/Azure-Samples/azure-openai-chat-baseline-landing-zone/pull/20#discussion_r2214422665

   - This parameters file contains the four `...AddressPrefix` values for the subnets in this architecture. The values must be within the platform-allocated address space for spoke and must be large enough for their respective services. Tip: Update the example ranges, not the subnet mask.

> 1.  You must obtain from your platform team the following values:

Author: it could be resolved via https://github.com/Azure-Samples/azure-openai-chat-baseline-landing-zone/pull/20#discussion_r2214422665

   | :-------: | :------------------------- |

1. Get workload prequisites outputs

   ```bash
   AIFOUNDRY_NAME=$(az deployment sub show --name ai-foundry-chat-prereq-lz-baseline-${BASE_NAME} --query "properties.outputs.aiFoundryName.value" -o tsv)
   COSMOSDB_ACCOUNT_NAME=$(az deployment sub show --name ai-foundry-chat-prereq-lz-baseline-${BASE_NAME} --query "properties.outputs.cosmosDbAccountName.value" -o tsv)
   STORAGE_ACCOUNT_NAME=$(az deployment sub show --name ai-foundry-chat-prereq-lz-baseline-${BASE_NAME} --query "properties.outputs.storageAccountName.value" -o tsv)
   AISEARCH_ACCOUNT_NAME=$(az deployment sub show --name ai-foundry-chat-prereq-lz-baseline-${BASE_NAME} --query "properties.outputs.aiSearchAccountName.value" -o tsv)
   BING_ACCOUNT_NAME=$(az deployment sub show --name ai-foundry-chat-prereq-lz-baseline-${BASE_NAME} --query "properties.outputs.bingAccountName.value" -o tsv)
   WEBAPP_APPINSIGHTS_NAME=$(az deployment sub show --name ai-foundry-chat-prereq-lz-baseline-${BASE_NAME} --query "properties.outputs.webApplicationInsightsResourceName.value" -o tsv)
   ```

1. Deploy Azure AI Foundry project and agent capability host

>    :clock8: *This might take about 5 minutes.*

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   :clock9: *This might take about 5 minutes.*
```

   BASE_NAME=<base resource name, between 6 and 8 lowercase characters, all DNS names will include this text, so it must be unique.>
   ```

1. Create a resource group and deploy the workload infrastructure prequisites.

   *There is an optional tracking ID on this deployment. To opt out of its use, add the following parameter to the deployment code below: `-p telemetryOptOut true`.*

   :clock8: *This might take about 20 minutes.*

   ```bash
   RESOURCE_GROUP="rg-chat-alz-baseline-${BASE_NAME}"
   az group create -l $LOCATION -n $RESOURCE_GROUP

   PRINCIPAL_ID=$(az ad signed-in-user show --query id -o tsv)

   az deployment sub create -f ./infra-as-code/bicep/main.bicep \
     -n ai-foundry-chat-prereq-lz-baseline-${BASE_NAME} \
     -l $LOCATION \
     -p workloadResourceGroupName=${RESOURCE_GROUP} \
     -p baseName=${BASE_NAME} \
     -p customDomainName=${DOMAIN_NAME_APPSERV} \
     -p appGatewayListenerCertificate=${APP_GATEWAY_LISTENER_CERTIFICATE} \
     -p existingResourceIdForSpokeVirtualNetwork=${SPOKE_RESOURCE_ID} \

>      -p existingResourceIdForUdrForInternetTraffic=${UDR_SPOKE_RESOURCE_ID} \

Author: it's been changed for deployment purposes @ckittel, but it is now reverted to its previous version.

done | addressed from 0cee81021cab762a59d2c0257ee3825daf9d9298

   az group delete -n $RESOURCE_GROUP -y

   # Continue, even if the previous command errored.
   ```

1. Purge soft-deleted resources.

   ```bash
   # Purge the soft delete resources.
   az keyvault purge -n kv-${BASE_NAME} -l $LOCATION
   az cognitiveservices account purge -g $RESOURCE_GROUP -l $LOCATION -n aif${BASE_NAME}
   ```

1. [Remove the Azure Policy assignments](https://portal.azure.com/#blade/Microsoft_Azure_Policy/PolicyMenuBlade/Compliance) scoped to the resource group. To identify those created by this implementation, look for ones that are prefixed with `[BASE_NAME] `.

> [!TIP]
> The `vnet-workload` and associated networking resources are sometimes blocked from being deleted with the above instructions. This is because the Azure AI Foundry Agent Service subnet (`snet-agentsEgress`) retains a latent Microsoft-managed delegated connection (`serviceAssociationLink`) to the deleted Foundry Agent Service backend. The virtual network and associated resources typically become free to delete about an hour after purging the Azure AI Foundry account.
>
> The lingering resources do not have a cost associated with them existing in your subscription.

> >

Author: good catch @ckittel, this is a platform-specific

done | addressed from 8aead6ba8d614b09796a26fe47703c332de96c3e
